<!-- Offensive security -->
Most companies will have an admin portal page, giving their staff access to basic admin controls for day-to-day operations. For a bank, an employee might need to transfer money to and from client accounts. Often these pages are not made private, allowing attackers to find hidden pages that show, or give access to, admin controls or sensitive data.

    gobuster -u http://fakebank.com -w wordlist.txt dir

    where wordlist is a file on the desktop virtual machine that contains lots of words that will be seached through.

    -u is the site we are scanning
    -w takes a list of words to iterate through

    You will see that GoBuster scans the website with each word in the list, finding pages that exist on the site. GoBuster will have told you the pages it found in the list of page/directory names (indicated by Status: 200).


    People often wonder how others become hackers (security consultants) or defenders (security analysts fighting cybercrime), and the answer is simple. Break it down, learn an area of cyber security you're interested in, and regularly practice using hands-on exercises. Build a habit of learning a little bit each day on TryHackMe, and you'll acquire the knowledge to get your first job in the industry.

    The cyber careers room goes into more depth about the different careers in cyber. However, here is a short description of a few offensive security roles:

Penetration Tester - Responsible for testing technology products for finding exploitable security vulnerabilities.
Red Teamer - Plays the role of an adversary, attacking an organization and providing feedback from an enemy's perspective.
Security Engineer - Design, monitor, and maintain security controls, networks, and systems to help prevent cyberattacks.

<!-- Defensive Security -->

Offensive security focuses on one thing: breaking into systems. Breaking into systems might be achieved through exploiting bugs, abusing insecure setups, and taking advantage of unenforced access control policies, among other things. Red teams and penetration testers specialize in offensive security.

Defensive security is somewhat the opposite of offensive security, as it is concerned with two main tasks:

Preventing intrusions from occurring
Detecting intrusions when they occur and responding properly

Some of the tasks that are related to defensive security include:

User cyber security awareness: Training users about cyber security 

Documenting and managing assets: We need to know the types of systems and devices that we have to manage and protect properly.

Updating and patching systems

Setting up preventative security devices: firewall and intrusion prevention systems (IPS) are critical components of preventative security. Firewalls control what network traffic can go inside and what can leave the system or network. IPS blocks any network traffic that matches present rules and attack signatures.

Setting up logging and monitoring devices: Without proper logging and monitoring of the network, it won’t be possible to detect malicious activities and intrusions. If a new unauthorized device appears on our network, we should be able to know.

Security Operations Center (SOC), where we cover Threat Intelligence

Digital Forensics and Incident Response (DFIR), where we also cover Malware Analysis

<!-- Security Operations Center (SOC)
 -->

A Security Operations Center (SOC) is a team of cyber security professionals that monitors the network and its systems to detect malicious cyber security events. Some of the main areas of interest for a SOC are:

Vulnerabilities: Whenever a system vulnerability (weakness) is discovered, it is essential to fix it by installing a proper update or patch. When a fix is not available, the necessary measures should be taken to prevent an attacker from exploiting it. 

Policy violations: We can think of a security policy as a set of rules required for the protection of the network and systems. For example, it might be a policy violation if users start uploading confidential company data to an online storage service.

Unauthorized activity: Consider the case where a user’s login name and password are stolen, and the attacker uses them to log into the network. A SOC needs to detect such an event and block it as soon as possible before further damage is done.

Network intrusions: No matter how good your security is, there is always a chance for an intrusion. An intrusion can occur when a user clicks on a malicious link or when an attacker exploits a public server. Either way, when an intrusion occurs, we must detect it as soon as possible to prevent further damage.

Security operations cover various tasks to ensure protection; one such task is threat intelligence.

<!-- Threat Intelligence
 -->
In this context, intelligence refers to information you gather about actual and potential enemies. A threat is any action that can disrupt or adversely affect a system. Threat intelligence aims to gather information to help the company better prepare against potential adversaries. The purpose would be to achieve a threat-informed defense. Different companies have different adversaries. Some adversaries might seek to steal customer data from a mobile operator; however, other adversaries are interested in halting the production in a petroleum refinery. Example adversaries include a nation-state cyber army working for political reasons and a ransomware group acting for financial purposes. Based on the company (target), we can expect adversaries.

Intelligence needs data. Data has to be collected, processed, and analyzed. Data collection is done from local sources such as network logs and public sources such as forums. Processing of data aims to arrange them into a format suitable for analysis. The analysis phase seeks to find more information about the attackers and their motives; moreover, it aims to create a list of recommendations and actionable steps.

Learning about your adversaries allows you to know their tactics, techniques, and procedures. As a result of threat intelligence, we identify the threat actor (adversary), predict their activity, and consequently, we will be able to mitigate their attacks and prepare a response strategy.

<!-- Digital Forensics and Incident Response (DFIR)
 -->
 Digital Forensics
Forensics is the application of science to investigate crimes and establish facts. With the use and spread of digital systems, such as computers and smartphones, a new branch of forensics was born to investigate related crimes: computer forensics, which later evolved into, digital forensics.

In defensive security, the focus of digital forensics shifts to analyzing evidence of an attack and its perpetrators and other areas such as intellectual property theft, cyber espionage, and possession of unauthorized content. Consequently, digital forensics will focus on different areas such as:

File System: Analyzing a digital forensics image (low-level copy) of a system’s storage reveals much information, such as installed programs, created files, partially overwritten files, and deleted files.

System memory: If the attacker is running their malicious program in memory without saving it to the disk, taking a forensic image (low-level copy) of the system memory is the best way to analyze its contents and learn about the attack.

System logs: Each client and server computer maintains different log files about what is happening. Log files provide plenty of information about what happened on a system. Some traces will be left even if the attacker tries to clear their traces.

Network logs: Logs of the network packets that have traversed a network would help answer more questions about whether an attack is occurring and what it entails.

<!-- Incident Response -->
An incident usually refers to a data breach or cyber attack; however, in some cases, it can be something less critical, such as a misconfiguration, an intrusion attempt, or a policy violation. Examples of a cyber attack include an attacker making our network or systems inaccessible, defacing (changing) the public website, and data breach (stealing company data). How would you respond to a cyber attack? Incident response specifies the methodology that should be followed to handle such a case. The aim is to reduce damage and recover in the shortest time possible. Ideally, you would develop a plan ready for incident response.

The four major phases of the incident response process are:

    Preparation: This requires a team trained and ready to handle incidents. Ideally, various measures are put in place to prevent incidents from happening in the first place.

    Detection and Analysis: The team has the necessary resources to detect any incident; moreover, it is essential to further analyze any detected incident to learn about its severity.

    Containment, Eradication, and Recovery: Once an incident is detected, it is crucial to stop it from affecting other systems, eliminate it, and recover the affected systems. For instance, when we notice that a system is infected with a computer virus, we would like to stop (contain) the virus from spreading to other systems, clean (eradicate) the virus, and ensure proper system recovery.

    Post-Incident Activity: After successful recovery, a report is produced, and the learned lesson is shared to prevent similar future incidents.

<!-- Malware Analysis -->
Malware stands for malicious software. Software refers to programs, documents, and files that you can save on a disk or send over the network. Malware includes many types, such as:

    Virus is a piece of code (part of a program) that attaches itself to a program. It is designed to spread from one computer to another; moreover, it works by altering, overwriting, and deleting files once it infects a computer. The result ranges from the computer becoming slow to unusable.

    Trojan Horse is a program that shows one desirable function but hides a malicious function underneath. For example, a victim might download a video player from a shady website that gives the attacker complete control over their system.

    Ransomware is a malicious program that encrypts the user’s files. Encryption makes the files unreadable without knowing the encryption password. The attacker offers the user the encryption password if the user is willing to pay a “ransom.”

Malware analysis aims to learn about such malicious programs using various means:

    Static analysis works by inspecting the malicious program without running it. Usually, this requires solid knowledge of assembly language (processor’s instruction set, i.e., computer’s fundamental instructions).

    Dynamic analysis works by running the malware in a controlled environment and monitoring its activities. It lets you observe how the malware behaves when running.

 <!-- IRL --> 
 In real time, we can see SIEM dashboard where we can see if any malicious IP address from the alerts. We then record the IP address. We then check if the IP address is a known malicious or suspicious IP with an IP scanner.

 There are many open-source databases out there, like AbuseIPDB, and Cisco Talos Intelligence, where you can perform a reputation and location check for the IP address.

 <!-- Security Analyst -->
 Responsible for maintaining the security of an organisation's data

    Working with various stakeholders to analyse the cyber security throughout the company

    Compile ongoing reports about the safety of networks, documenting security issues and measures taken in response

    Develop security plans, incorporating research on new attack tools and trends, and measures needed across teams to maintain data security.

<!--Social Engineer  -->
Design, monitor and maintain security controls, networks, and systems to help prevent cyberattacks. Security engineers develop and implement security solutions using threats and vulnerability data - often sourced from members of the security workforce

    Testing and screening security measures across software

    Monitor networks and reports to update systems and mitigate vulnerabilities

    Identify and implement systems needed for optimal security

<!-- Incident Responder -->
Identifies and mitigates attacks whilst an attackers operations are still unfolding.  This is often a highly pressurised position with assessments and responses required in real-time, as attacks are unfolding. Incident response metrics include MTTD, MTTA, and MTTR - the meantime to detect, acknowledge, and recover (from attacks.) 

    Developing and adopting a thorough, actionable incident response plan

    Maintaining strong security best practices and supporting incident response measures

    Post-incident reporting and preparation for future attacks, considering learnings and adaptations to take from incidents

<!-- Digital Forensics Examiner -->
    Collect digital evidence while observing legal procedures

    Analyse digital evidence to find answers related to the case

    Document your findings and report on the case

<!-- Malware Analyst -->
Analyses all types of malware to learn more about how they work and what they do. A malware analyst is sometimes called a reverse-engineer as their core task revolves around converting compiled programs from machine language to readable code, usually in a low-level language. This work requires the malware analyst to have a strong programming background, especially in low-level languages such as assembly language and C language

    Carry out static analysis of malicious programs, which entails reverse-engineering

    Conduct dynamic analysis of malware samples by observing their activities in a controlled environment

    Document and report all the findings

<!-- Penetration Tester -->
Responsible for testing technology products for security loopholes.You may see penetration testing referred to as pentesting and ethical hacking. A penetration tester's job role is to test the security of the systems and software within a company - this is achieved through attempts to uncover flaws and vulnerabilities through systemised hacking.

    Conduct tests on computer systems, networks, and web-based applications

    Perform security assessments, audits, and analyse policies

    Evaluate and report on insights, recommending actions for attack prevention

<!-- Red Teamer -->
Plays the role of an adversary, attacking an organisation and providing feedback from an enemies perspective. Penetration testers look to uncover many vulnerabilities across systems to keep cyber-defence in good standing, whilst red teamers are enacted to test the company's detection and response capabilities. 

    Emulate the role of a threat actor to uncover exploitable vulnerabilities, maintain access and avoid detection

    Assess organisations' security controls, threat intelligence, and incident response procedures

    Evaluate and report on insights, with actionable data for companies to avoid real-world instances

<!-- Based off a Quiz, I should do Security Analyst -->

<!-- NETWORKING -->

Networks are simply things connected, anything two devices that are together are connected by a network.

the internet is one giant network that consists of many many small networks within itself.
As previously stated, the Internet is made up of many small networks all joined together.  These small networks are called private networks, where networks connecting these small networks are called public networks -- or the Internet! So, to recap, a network can be one of two types:

A private network
A public network

To communicate and maintain order, devices must be both identifying and identifiable on a network. What use is it if you don't know whom you're talking to at the end of the day?

Devices on a network are very similar to humans in the fact that we have two ways of being identified:

    Our Name
    Our Fingerprints

Devices have the same thing: two means of identification, with one being permeable. These are:

    An IP (internet protocol) Address
    A Media Access Control (MAC) Address -- think of this as being similar to a serial number.
<!-- IP ADDRESS -->

An IP address is made up fo 4 octets.

192.168.1.1 as an example

IP addresses can change from device to device but cannot be active simultaneously more than once within the same network. And IPs can be either a public or private IP address. A public address is used to identify the device on the Internet, whereas a private address is used to identify a device amongst other devices. 

Two private IP can communicate with each other, but any data sent to the internet from either of these devices will be identified by the same public IP address. Public IP addresses are given by your Internet Service Provider (or ISP) at a monthly fee (your bill!).As more and more devices become connected, it is becoming increasingly harder to get a public address that isn't already in use. 


<!-- MAC Address -->

MAC = Media Access Control 

Devices on a network will all have a physical network interface, which is a microchip board found on the device's motherboard. This network interface is assigned a unique address at the factory it was built at, called a MAC (Media Access Control ) address.

The MAC address is a twelve-character hexadecimal number split into two's and separated by a colon. a4:c3:f0:85:ac:2d. The first six characters represent the company that made the network interface, and the last six is a unique number.

However, an interesting thing with MAC addresses is that they can be faked or "spoofed" in a process known as spoofing. This spoofing occurs when a networked device pretends to identify as another using its MAC address. If a device were to pretend or "spoof" a MAC address, the firewall would now think that it is receiving communication from the administrator when it isn't.

<!-- PING -->
Ping is one of the most fundamental network tools available to us. Ping uses ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) packets to determine the performance of a connection between devices, for example, if the connection exists or is reliable. The syntax to do a simple ping is 
    ping IP address or website URL. 
    
    ping 192.168.1.254
