<!-- LAN -->
Local Area network
 In reference to networking, when we refer to the term "topology", we are actually referring to the design or look of the network at hand.

<!-- star topology -->
 The main premise of a star topology is that devices are individually connected via a central networking device such as a switch or hub. This topology is the most commonly found today because of its reliability and scalability - despite the cost.

 Because more cabling and the purchase of dedicated networking equipment is required for this topology, it is more expensive than any of the other topologies. However, this topology is much more scalable in nature, which means that it is very easy to add more devices as the demand for the network increases.

 Unfortunately, the more the network scales, the more maintenance is required to keep the network functional. If the centralised hardware that connects devices fails, these devices will no longer be able to send or receive data.

 But if we break the center hub, the whole network is now down,

<!-- Bus Topology -->
 This type of connection relies upon a single connection which is known as a backbone cable.

 Because all data destined for each device travels along the same cable, it is very quickly prone to becoming slow and bottlenecked if devices within the topology are simultaneously requesting data. This bottleneck also results in very difficult troubleshooting because it quickly becomes difficult to identify which device is experiencing issues with data all travelling along the same route. A disadvantage is because there is a single point of failure along the backbone cable. Cheap since there is only one cable to maintain. 

 Relies on a single cable, can be overloaded if lots of data from one computer is being sent

<!-- RING Topology -->
 Also known as token. Devices such as computers are connected directly to each other to form a loop, meaning that there is little cabling required and less dependence on dedicated hardware such as within a star topology.

 A ring topology works by sending data across the loop until it reaches the destined device, using other devices along the loop to forward the data. Interestingly, a device will only send received data from another device in this topology if it does not have any to send itself. If the device happens to have data to send, it will send its own data first before sending data from another device.

 Lastly, ring topologies are less prone to bottlenecks, such as within a bus topology, as large amounts of traffic are not travelling across the network at any one time. The design of this topology does, however, mean that a fault such as cut cable, or broken device will result in the entire networking breaking.

 Relies on each computer. If a cable goes down in the ring, the whole thing will go down

 <!-- Switch -->
 Switches are dedicated devices within a network that are designed to aggregate multiple other devices such as computers, printers, or any other networking-capable device using ethernet, used in schools or large businesses.

 Switches are much more efficient than their lesser counterpart (hubs/repeaters). Switches keep track of what device is connected to which port. This way, when they receive a packet, instead of repeating that packet to every port like a hub would do, it just sends it to the intended target, thus reducing network traffic.

 Both Switches and Routers can be connected to one another. If one path goes down, another can be used.

 <!-- Router -->
 It's a router's job to connect networks and pass data between them. It does this by using routing (hence the name router!).

What device is used to centrally connect multiple devices on the local network and transmit data to the correct location?

Switch, smarter than a hub/router


<!-- primer on subnetting -->
 Subnetting is the term given to splitting up a network into smaller, miniature networks within itself. The same goes for a subnet mask which is also represented as a number of four bytes (32 bits), ranging from 0 to 255 (0-255).

 Whilst you know where to send information in real life to the correct department, networks need to know as well. Network administrators use subnetting to categorise and assign specific parts of a network to reflect this.

 Subnetting is achieved by splitting up the number of hosts that can fit within the network, represented by a number called a subnet mask.

Subnetting is achieved by splitting up the number of hosts that can fit within the network, represented by a number called a subnet mask.

    Network address = ID network and identify network existence.

    Host address = ID the device on the subnet, used to identify devices within a network

Default gateway = address assigned to a device on the network that is capable of sending information to another network. Any data that needs to go to a device that isn't on the same network (i.e. isn't on 192.168.1.0) will be sent to this device. These devices can use any host address but usually use either the first or last host address in a network (.1 or .254)

<!-- ARP Portocol -->
 Address Resolution Protocol or ARP for short, is the technology that is responsible for allowing devices to identify themselves on a network.

 In short, ARP allows a device to associate its MAC address with an IP address on the network. 

 Each device within a network has a ledger to store information on, which is called a cache. This cache stores the identifiers of other devices on the network.

 In order to map the IP address and MAC address, the ARP sends two types of messages,

    ARP Request
    ARP Reply

When an ARP request is sent, a message is broadcasted on the network to other devices asking, "What is the mac address that owns this IP address?" When the other devices receive that message, they will only respond if they own that IP address and will send an ARP reply with its MAC address. The requesting device can now remember this mapping and store it in its ARP cache for future use.

The request will be sent to lots of devices, but only the right device that owns that IP address will be sent back that I am the right device that owns that IP address.

What category of ARP Packet asks a device whether or not it has a specific IP address?
request

physical ID = Mac address
logical ID = IP address.

<!-- DHCP Protocal -->
Assigns IP address if not one already established.

DHCP discover - retrieve an IP address


IP can be manual assigned, or more commonly, assigned by using a DHCP (dynamic Host Configuration Protocal). When a device connects to a network, if it has not already been manually assigned an IP address, it sends out a request (DHCP Discover) to see if any DHCP servers are on the network. The DHCP server then replies back with an IP address the device could use (DHCP Offer). The device then sends a reply confirming it wants the offered IP Address (DHCP Request), and then lastly, the DHCP server sends a reply acknowledging this has been completed, and the device can start using the IP Address (DHCP ACK), this is the last DHCP packet.

<!-- OSI MODEL -->
Open System Interconnection Model - model used in networking. This critical model provides a framework dictating how all networked devices will send, receive and interpret data. Devices can have different function
Devices can have different functions and designs on a network while communicating with other devices. 

The OSI model consists of seven layers which are illustrated in the diagram below. 

The seven layers can make up the OSI model is 

7.Application
6. Presentation
5. Session
4.Transport
3.Network
2. Data Link
1. Physical

What is the key term for when pieces of information get added to data?

encapsulation


<!-- 7. Application -->
how the user should interact with data sent or received. Uses GUI a lot of the time. The most familiar.

<!-- 6. Presentation -->
layer in which standardisation starts to take place. This layer acts as a translator for data to and from the application layer (layer 7). When you send an email, the other user may have another email client to you, but the contents of the email will still need to display the same.

Security features such as data encryption (like HTTPS when visiting a secure site) occur at this layer.

<!-- 5. Session -->
Once 6 has translated the data, 5. will create connections to other computers. A connection is established, a session is created. Synchronises the two computers to ensure that they are on the same page before data is sent and received.

Small chunks of data are called packets

<!-- 4. Transport -->
Plays a vital part in transmitting data across a network. When data is sent between devices,  it follows one of two different protocols that are decided based upon several factors:
    TCP
    UDP

TCP =  Transmission Control Protocol, provides constatnt connection between two devices. Also does error checks, makes sure the packets from 5. is reassembled in the same order.

PROS:
    TCP = Guarantess accuracy, prevents flooding of data.
CONS:
    Needs all chunks, if a small one is missing, none is received, slow connection will hog the lines, and a lot slower than UDP.

Use: file sharing, internet browing, and sending an email, needs the service to be accuarte and complete, no point in having half a file

UDP = User Datagram Protocol.
PROS:
    Much faster than TCO
    does not reserve continous connection
Cons:
    doesn't care if data is received
    unstable connection bad for users.

Best for small pieces of data, or very large files like video streaming (some pixel of a video)

<!-- 3. Network -->
Where the magic of routing & re-assembly of data takes place (from these small chunks to the larger chunk). 

Routing - best route chunks should be moved.

Routing uses =  OSPF (Open Shortest Path First) and RIP (Routing Information Protocol).
Factors to consider on speed- 

    What path is the shortest? I.e. has the least amount of devices that the packet needs to travel across.
    
    What path is the most reliable? I.e. have packets been lost on that path before?

    Which path has the faster physical connection? I.e. is one path using a copper connection (slower) or a fibre (considerably faster)?

 Devices such as routers capable of delivering packets using IP addresses are known as Layer 3 devices 

 <!-- 2. Data Link -->
Physical addressing of the transmission. Inside every network-enabled computer is a Network Interface Card (NIC) which comes with a unique MAC address to identify it. When information is sent across a network, it’s actually the physical address that is used to identify where exactly to send the information.

<!-- Physical -->
 physical components of the hardware used in networking and is the lowest layer that you will find. For example, ethernet cables connecting devices, such as in the picture below:

Apps sends data -> Data is presented in the same format -> Session is created, we are on the same page in terms of data -> Tranport the data -> Network the data -> Link the data to a physical computer -> the wire brings it to your computer.

APSTNDP