<!-- packets and frames -->
Packets and frames are small pieces of data that, when forming together, make a larger piece of information or message. But they are different.
frame is layer 2, no info on IP address.Think of this as putting an envelope within an envelope and sending it away. The first envelope will be the packet that you mail, but once it is opened, the envelope within still exists and contains data (this is a frame).

This process is called encapsulation 

 At this stage, it's safe to assume that when we are talking about anything IP addresses, we are talking about packets. When the encapsulating information is stripped away, we're talking about the frame itself.

 frames are the inside of packets.

 Let's continue with our example of the Internet Protocol. A packet using this protocol will have a set of headers that contain additional pieces of information to the data that is being sent across a network.

Some notable headers include:
    time-live:This field sets an expiry timer for the packet to not clog up your network if it never manages to reach a host or escape!
    Checksum:This field provides integrity checking for protocols such as TCP/IP. If any data is changed, this value will be different from what was expected and therefore corrupt.
    Source Address:The IP address of the device that the packet is being sent from so that data knows where to return to.
    Destination Address	:The device's IP address the packet is being sent to so that data knows where to travel next.

packets have IP address, frames do not.

<!-- TCP (or Transmission Control Protocol for short) is another one of these rules used in networking.
 -->

 The TCP/IP protocol consists of four layers and is arguably just a summarised version of the OSI model. These layers are:

    Application
    Transport
    Internet
    Network Interface

One defining feature of TCP is that it is connection-based, which means that TCP must establish a connection between both a client and a device acting as a server before data is sent.Because of this, TCP guarantees that any data sent will be received on the other end. This process is named the Three-way handshake, which is something we'll come on to discuss shortly. 


pro of TCP:
    guarantees integrity of data
    prevent flooding of two devices
    reliable processes.

cons of TCP: 
    needs to be connected to two devices.If one small chunk of data is not received, then the entire chunk of data cannot be used and must be re-sent.

    slow connection will hold up the other device.

    TCP much slower than UDP.

TCP packets contain various sections of information known as headers that are added from encapsulation. Let's explain some of the crucial headers in the table below:

    source port: This value is the port opened by the sender to send the TCP packet from. This value is chosen randomly (out of the ports from 0-65535 that aren't already in use at the time).

    Destination port:  Unlike the source port, this value is not chosen at random. server usually.

    source IP:IP of device sending the packet

    destination IP: IP of device packet is destined for.

    sequence number: When a connection occurs, the first piece of data transmitted is given a random number.

    Acknowledgement Number: After a piece of data has been given a sequence number, the number for the next piece of data will have the sequence number + 1. 

    checksum: This value is what gives TCP integrity. A mathematical calculation is made where the output is remembered. When the receiving device performs the mathematical calculation, the data must be corrupt if the output is different from what was sent.

    data: This header is where the data, i.e. bytes of a file that is being transmitted, is stored.

    Flag: This header determines how the packet should be handled by either device during the handshake process. Specific flags will determine specific behaviors, which is what we'll come on to explain below.

    three-way handshake: process to build a connection between two devices.

    1	SYN	- A SYN message is the initial packet sent by a client during the handshake. This packet is used to initiate a connection and synchronies the two devices together (we'll explain this further later on).
    2	SYN/ACK	-  This packet is sent by the receiving device (server) to acknowledge the synchronization attempt from the client.
    3	ACK	- The acknowledgement packet can be used by either the client or server to acknowledge that a series of messages/packets have been successfully received.
    4	DATA- Once a connection has been established, data (such as bytes of a file) is sent via the "DATA" message.
    5	FIN	- This packet is used to cleanly (properly) close the connection after it has been complete.
    6	- RST This packet abruptly ends all communication. This is the last resort and indicates there was some problem during the process. For example, if the service or application is not working correctly, or the system has faults such as low resources. LAST RESORT, abruptly ends, reset packet.

    Any sent data is given a random number sequence and is reconstructed using this number sequence and incrementing by 1. Both computers must agree on the same number sequence for data to be sent in the correct order. This order is agreed upon during three steps:

SYN - Client: Here's my Initial Sequence Number(ISN) to SYNchronise with (0)
SYN/ACK - Server: Here's my Initial Sequence Number (ISN) to SYNchronise with (5,000), and I ACKnowledge your initial number sequence (0)
ACK - Client: I ACKnowledge your Initial Sequence Number (ISN) of (5,000), here is some data that is my ISN+1 (0 + 1)


tcp close connection 

To initiate the closure of a TCP connection, the device will send a "FIN" packet to the other device. Of course, with TCP, the other device will also have to acknowledge this packet.

A sends fin to B, B sends two things, a ACK and FIN to A, A sends the final ACK to B.


The User Datagram Protocol (UDP) is another protocol that is used to communicate data between devices.

Unlike its brother TCP, UDP is a stateless protocol that doesn't require a constant connection between the two devices for data to be sent. For example, the Three-way handshake does not occur, nor is there any synchronisation between the two devices.
UDP also has some common headers

Time to Live (TTL)
This field sets an expiry timer for the packet, so it doesn't clog up your network if it never manages to reach a host or escape!

Source Address	The IP address of the device that the packet is being sent from, so that data knows where to return to.

Destination Address	The device's IP address the packet is being sent to so that data knows where to travel next.

Source Port	This value is the port that is opened by the sender to send the UDP packet from. This value is randomly chosen (out of the ports from 0-65535 that aren't already in use at the time).

Destination Port	This value is the port number that an application or service is running on the remote host (the one receiving the data); for example, a webserver running on port 80. Unlike the source port, this value is not chosen at random.

Data	This header is where data, i.e. bytes of a file that is being transmitted, is stored.

Next, we'll come on to discuss how the process of a connection via UDP differs from that of something such as TCP.  We should recall that UDP is stateless. No acknowledgement is sent during a connection.

<!-- ports -->
These ports enforce what can park and where — if it isn't compatible, it cannot park here. Networking devices also use ports to enforce strict rules when communicating with one another. When a connection has been established (recalling from the OSI model's room), any data sent or received by a device will be sent through these ports. In computing, ports are a numerical value between 0 and 65535 (65,535).

There are rules: For example, by enforcing that any web browser data is sent over port 80, software developers can design a web browser such as Google Chrome or Firefox to interpret the data the same way as one another. This means that all web browsers now share one common rule: data is sent over port 80. How the browsers look, feel and easy to use is up to the designer or the user's decision.


While the standard rule for web data is port 80, a few other protocols have been allocated a standard rule. Any port that is within 0 and 1024 (1,024) is known as a common port. Let's explore some of these other protocols below:

Common ports 
File Transfer Protocol (FTP)	-21-	This protocol is used by a file-sharing application built on a client-server model, meaning you can download files from a central location.

Secure Shell (SSH)	-22-	This protocol is used to securely login to systems via a text-based interface for management.

HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP)	-80-	This protocol powers the World Wide Web (WWW)! Your browser uses this to download text, images and videos of web pages.

HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS)		-443-	This protocol does the exact same as above; however, securely using encryption.

Server Message Block (SMB)	-445-	This protocol is similar to the File Transfer Protocol (FTP); however, as well as files, SMB allows you to share devices like printers.

Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP)	-3389-	This protocol is a secure means of logging in to a system using a visual desktop interface (as opposed to the text-based limitations of the SSH protocol).

Open the site attached to this task and connect to the IP address "8.8.8.8" on port "1234", and you'll receive a flag.

user@thm:~$ nc 8.8.8.8 1234
terminal: Connection Received: THM{YOU_CONNECTED_TO_A_PORT}



